um so one of the questions people ask me
is both Thailand about going to Thailand
in theory people could also ask for my
advice about Cambodia or Laos or Taiwan
Taiwan is also very interesting place to
go if you're vegan you know especially
for vegan um I get asked this kind of
advice for good reason I have more than
10 years of experience with Thailand
with traveling there with working there
with living there on the right person
ask especially if you're vegan
especially if we have some interest in
common if you're going to tie line for
some of the same reasons that I have
gone to tell into the past or may go to
Thailand again in the future um so it's
not stupid and the other thing is I'm
not a cheerleader for Thailand there are
a lot of people out here I think
including durianrider who just say that
Thailand is the most wonderful country
in the world you'll be so happy if you
go there it doesn't have any social
problems there's no poverty there's no
crime there's no danger I've heard
during writers say many many times
including in his interviews with younger
woman oh it's really safe here isn't it
like don't you feel safe you know it's
not a problem there's no danger here in
Thailand but it was so every so often
people asked me for advice and I
remember you guys may know Hannah Chloe
I remember I think it's about two and a
half years ago getting closer to three
years ago now but in more than two years
ago I remember Hannah Chloe asking me
for advice boat on before she moved
there and I advised her actually not to
move the tie was interesting
conversation time anyway so someone
recently was asking me for advice about
Thailand and this is another vegan and
her parents were concerned that Thailand
was too dangerous and I her parents
unlike me are not extras on the Grands
ever been to Thailand but her parents
were really saying to her no you
shouldn't go you know you're you're
putting yourself in harm's way now I
think at the end of this message I
mentioned the contrast to Egypt and if
you've been watching my channel for a
long time you may recall I raised this
point just in questioning the permanent
vacation lifestyle more generally many
times have said to people well is this
really a meaningful vacation let's just
admit first of all let's admit it's a
vacation you're not going to do research
you're not going to do humanitarian work
not going for your own education it's a
vacation so admit that to yourself it's
a lot of money it's a short amount of
time is this more meaningful than going
to see the pyramids in Egypt is this
more meaningful than going to see the
ancient archaeological sites in Greece
in athens greece or something anywhere
in greece greece is full of ancient
ruins um hey let's give a sh 0 2 bath
england there are some you know ancient
sites even within the UK is this really
the most meaningful vacation you could
go on you know um if we're talking about
this vacation because I don't think
vacations are meaningless I think a
vacation can change your life who could
change your life in a profound way it
could change your life in a shell away
whatever but just talking about as a
vacation and I think though under that
heading also it's worth reflecting on so
right now I'm going to be intentionally
vague right now Thailand is going
through a period of political transition
no comment um I think it's fair to say
that Egypt also is politically shall we
say unstable if you were to ask me you
know is it safe to go on vacation in
Thailand no is it safe to go on vacation
in Egypt no but maybe it's worth well
anyway you know maybe it's the right
decision for you to make is to
acknowledge the danger understand the
danger and say okay I'm going to go to
Egypt and see the pyramids or I'm going
to go to Greece and see the ancient
sites see the museums or I'm going to go
to Thailand for this reason this reason
this reason you should know what your
reasons are it shouldn't be to write a
bicycle up a hill that's just ridiculous
I'm asked come on okay if you want to
write a bicycle go to the go to the
Nevada desert man I mean you know if
you're in the US the deserts of the
United States or fabulous places to do
long-distance cycling but anyway so I'm
just going to read out this this email I
sent to someone that's actually not the
first team on the conversation we had
couple of messages back and forth but I
said so this is kind of in the middle of
the converses conversation say look it's
sort of strange to preface a statement
of this kind with quote I really don't
care but the point is I'm just trying to
help and I really don't care two things
that don't always go together I thought
about this more just because this part
of Asia has been such a big part of my
life and it still is yes when
durianrider says that chiang mai is
totally safe that's conversely
i honestly do believe that chiang mai is
much safer than San Francisco infinitely
safer just pause I think San Francisco
is a really interesting contrast just a
couple days ago here by complete
coincidence after I wrote this email
there was a guy here from San Francisco
telling funny stories about his friends
getting mugged and held at gunpoint and
the last time i was in san francisco
just walking the streets the number of
drug addicts on the streets is
astounding san francisco looks like a
dangerous place and feels like a
dangerous place and there's a really
sharp contrast between the rich and the
poor in san francisco obviously you can
look up the crime statistics etc but i
do believe you know chiang mai thailand
is safer than san francisco if I were if
I lived in San Francisco I would want to
own a gun I would want to carry a gun
I'm just being honest with you I'm a
Canadian in Canada we don't have gun
laws like that but you know so this is a
real caveat although i think that during
writer is bullshitting you and saying
that this is totally safe i do think
that a city like chiang mai is safer
than dead san francisco okay if i
continue reading here does my opinion
matter ? does taking a vacation in
Thailand matter ? if you want to explore
Asia if you want to consider the option
of teaching english as a second language
in asia somewhere on the continent of
asia whether talent otherwise then yes
it matters that it's worthwhile so just
pause this again I mean it's another
issue if you're going to Egypt but
there's no possibility that mod
Egypt is going to be a meaningful part
of your life like your interest is only
ancient Egypt that's a little bit sad
and dead-ended but maybe if you're going
to Thailand you know maybe weather for
work or otherwise maybe modern Thailand
is a meaningful part of your life right
maybe in the next 10 years this can be
some where you work and live and visit
maybe this is not just a vacation and
again there are also cultural and
historical they're all kinds of reasons
but you know if you really do not think
you're ever going to pick up a newspaper
and want to follow what's going on in
Modern Egypt that's different from going
to Thailand but really remaining
involved with what's going to town
picking up the Bangkok posts and being
involved with being interested in
engaged with Thailand or Thailand maybe
being a place you have a job maybe a
place you study the language etc etc ok
um I have more than 10 years of
experience in the region tons of
experience with Chiang Mai itself all
the way north to you nan all the way
cells to Cambodia all the way east to
Laos etc I'll just mention I have
experienced all those places I have
experienced with transportation by bus
between those places and I have
experience translate with transportation
by bicycle I've done a lot of
long-distance cycling there back in the
day um if your parents wanted to talk to
me about this I could talk to them so I
just have a little thing saying look
like if your parents actually want to
talk to me about talk to me by Skype
about how safer how dangerous Thailand
is imma do it um conversely of course I
can just give advice to you and
conversely i can just shut up which is
not exactly my forte however the nature
the advice I can give it in relation to
your safety in danger is a bit bizarre
the truth is that most tourists are in
danger only because they put themselves
in danger most tourists want to go to
nightclubs and they don't want to go to
normal night clubs they only want to go
to the most dangerous night clubs and
24-hour rave parties etc the truth is in
Chiang Mai I know as an example a live
music venue where
schulte I university students go and
it's really safe and it's really
somewhat boring of course it's safer
than a nightclub in Toronto or San
Francisco and it's mostly people sitting
at wooden tables listening to live music
they also have a separate room where
they actually teach dancing lessons you
can actually take lessons in like Samba
dancing and different types of dancing I
think like pop music dancing like you
know like Britney Spears tight formation
dancing whatever it's extremely tame but
that's not what most tourists want so
just to pause you know the particular
nightclub I'm describing here which
again I really do believe is a very safe
place very safe and boring you can sit
there and listen to you know a live band
play music and nobody's even going to
talk to you and there's just nothing
nothing dangerous about nothing exciting
about it you're not going to make any
new friends if you go with a group of
friends you know you can you can spend
time with a nightclub you can drink
alcohol or listen to music but nobody's
even going to talk to you there and one
reason for that is although I said
they're university students the reality
is they are the social elite those
particular university students there are
either members of the money delete or
they are actually aspiring to join that
elite and imitating the behaviour of
that elite so they won't even talk to
you you know this is part of Thai
culture the it's a very hierarchical
culture in some ways it's a very futile
culture both in terms the language used
in the culture you know that's who they
are so you know if you're an American
that's very hard to imagine um I think
American University students in a night
club like that would be especially open
to maybe especially interested in making
new friends and meeting strangers and so
on but in some more hierarchical more
elitist cultures there's a sense of if a
stranger talks to you sorry who are you
who do you think you are why are you
talking to me you go sit at your own
table I'll go sit at mine and you know
also a lot of Thai culture is just very
sweet and childish like taking dancing
lessons that nothing wrong with it but
you know I think like in Tehran
now everyone want to act cool everyone
will be too cool to take dancing lessons
that there are no you know I'm saying um
okay uh so I continue here in my letter
whether they do it intentionally or not
it seems that most foreigners are really
seeking out the most dangerous corners
of Thailand they don't want to sit and
listen to live music with normal type
people so just as very true I remember
there was another nightclub in the
Northeast so not in Chiang Mai Jay
Mieses the northwestern in the northeast
and it was a really authentic local club
I guess you'd call it a country music
club where they had some rock and roll
music too but local country music local
people farmers and farmers daughters and
some of the local university students to
you know just doing their thing but you
know and the there were a couple
foreigners some of the local English
teachers and some of the local
humanitarian workers some of the people
working with charities would go there
those are the only white people you meet
there but that's not what foreigners
what most of the most of the tourists
they want something edgy and dangerous
they don't want something sweet and
wholesome and authentic they want danger
and they go out and find it and then
they get into trouble you know they
wanna they want to feel like they're on
the edge so anyway I but you know even a
nightclub I mean I know a nightclub is a
slightly dangerous activity anywhere in
the world but even with in Thailand if
if you just do what local people
consider safe it's pretty safe you know
and you're not going to find other
tourists there you're going to be going
to places where they're either all local
people or there were just a couple of
tourists normally like I say some
something like humanitarian work or
maybe local English teacher who got
married and settled down there or
something like that um you know I don't
mention it here in the message but
another example I had in mind when I was
writing this was even swimming
foreigners want to go swimming in the
most dangerous places to go to avec you
know even
even something like that it's not enough
for them to swim in the ocean no no they
gotta pay a boat to drag them on water
skis in the ocean no no that's not
enough they gotta pay an airplane to
drag them on the water skis on
the ocean so they're going really fast
so there really could break their neck
they want to see coral reefs they want
to go diving well that can be safe no no
no you gotta pick a helicopter to
lift you and drop you in the
coral reef they've got to make it more
dangerous they've got to make it more
edgy otherwise they feel like they're
not a vacation meanwhile local people
are swimming at a normal beach or
something that's totally safe no no this
tendency to really want to push the edge
now I mention you know in Laos Laos is a
landlocked country Laos doesn't have an
ocean it as a river has some lakes but
even there we kept having tourists dying
because they wouldn't go swimming like
local people in that River the Mekong
River can really kill you it's a
tremendously powerful River just the
water itself can kill you and I've
experienced that you have to be
extremely careful where you swim in that
river and you ask local people where
it's safe to swim and they'll know
people who died like if they're local
and they live on the river of the be
like yeah my uncle died over there like
that's life on the river you know those
people who really do it um but you can
get swept away you can get killed in
that River pretty easily and tourists do
because they're not satisfied to enjoy
the local culture the local environment
the way local people do okay I continue
with this letter there are other aspects
that are just symbolic and irrational in
northern Thailand and Laos if you wear a
tank top so this kind of strap if you
are a tank top exposing your shoulders
and theoretically your armpits you're
regarded as trash if you were a t-shirt
covering the shoulder then you're
regarded as very respectable you can
attend a wedding or a funeral or a
t-shirt in a t-shirt in this culture
sorry to get in this culture you can
actually go to weddings and funerals
just wearing a t-shirt if there's a
respectable t-shirt like a solid color
t-shirt that's like formal wear
but if you were a tank top you're
regarded as you regarded as trash
okay it doesn't make sense but a culture
never does I remember my girlfriend a
blond Canadian not the French woman
later became my wife trying to stop two
female European tourists from entering a
Buddhist monastery wearing tank tops you
know she was thought she was doing a
good deed these young women these two
European tourists their bra straps were
visible their bra straps digital were
visible under the tank top but the
tutors didn't actually speak in English
it turned out they were they were
Russian or some kind of Eastern European
tourists I remember so this is a minor
enter but my girlfriend you know who
lived there with me and she understood
this with the local culture that in the
local culture it's totally acceptable
for a woman to go into a Buddhist
monastery wearing a t-shirt but not a
tank top it's cultural it doesn't make
sense doesn't have to make sense that's
the culture t-shirt okay tank top not
okay okay so yes it's an extremely
permissive culture but people will treat
you better if you were a t-shirt like
the tree with more respect and yes
wearing a blouse makes you royalty then
you're treated extremely well you know
if you wear something with buttons you
really are treated better in this
culture um and if you go into a formal
setting like a Buddhist monastery
wearing a tank top then you're despised
is that dangerous would anyone rob you
or rape you because you wore a tank top
I doubt it but these are the sort of
factors you learn to manage with in any
culture people treated me very very
differently when they regarded me as a
scholar of Buddhism which I was as
opposed to an off-duty US Army officer
or US Army servicemen which I wasn't
although my appearance and clothing
might have been exactly the same so I'm
say exactly same way sometimes people
thought I was in the US Army which I'm
not never been in the American army and
sometimes people thought you know some
people knew or they learned about me
that I was actually there studying
Buddhism history politics blah blah blah
um but their attitude towards me even
wearing the same clothes the way they
treated me the level of respect Evan was
very different so this is all stuff
that's invisible to a guy like
durianrider right a guy like durianrider
lives his whole life in a tank top and
the women around him wearing tank tops
editor unlike durianrider etc I'm not a
fan of Thai culture I'm not trying to
sell anyone on that's why at the
beginning I said I don't really care i'm
just trying to be helpful you know so
mentioned here again when Hannah Khloe
asked for my advice about teaching
english as a second language in Asia I
actually told her that Thailand was the
worst choice and because of durianrider
etc because of that scene in Chiang Mai
she chose to go to Thailand anyway I
nail wonder if she regrets that decision
like I wonder if she looks back and
thinks her life would be better if she'd
taken my advice instead of moving to
Thailand moving to chi mai I don't know
though I don't know that much I mean
Hannah khlo and I don't know anything
about her personal life we're not close
but you know I know her I know of her we
had like I say oddly you know I knew her
via Facebook before she or I you know
we're well known on YouTube but back
then both of us were already making
YouTube videos we just had very few
viewers okay however is the status of
women bad in Thailand is the status of
white women bad in Thailand no so to be
clear my answer is no as with the status
of homosexuals the status of women
generally is much better in Thailand
than in most of the Eastern world and
it's better than most of the Western
world too okay so let me just be um let
me just be blunt here if we're comparing
Thailand to Malaysia for comparing
Thailand Indonesia if we're comparing
Thailand to Saudi Arabia what are we
comparing Thailand to are we comparing
Thailand to Cambodia it's one of the
best places in the world are we
comparing Thailand to the Ukraine are we
comparing Thailand to Poland like a lot
of Eastern Europe is a pretty terrible
place we are weak a very talented Spain
I don't think only the status of women
is very good in Spain keeping it all the
way real they write just saying a lot of
these countries the status of women is
not that great so yes Thailand is
actually one of the best places not one
of the worst and that's vaguely parallel
I think the same thing you can stable
the status of homosexuals
you know in Thailand it's probably the
single best country to be homosexual in
the whole world and this kind of
correlates some of the cultures where
the status of women is really bad often
also the status of homosexual but not
all the time but I wouldn't want to be
homosexual in a muslim-majority country
I wouldn't want to be homosexual in a
strictly Catholic country like Spain
admittedly some people will now say to
me off anus and Catholic at all anymore
you're living in the past well Spain is
still to Catholic for my tastes but yeah
if you're in a strictly Catholic country
as a woman like Latin America if you're
in Colombia Brazil being a woman in
Colombia Brazil is pretty pretty rough
and that cat in that case legacy
together all right so that's my
digression here um but yes actually the
status of women in Thailand is better
than most of the Eastern world it's even
better than most of the Western world
but as I said at the top of this message
there's a sense in which I just don't
care I'm not trying to convince you of
anything I'm just offering to help if I
can't help I've said before that taking
a vacation to visit the pyramids in
Egypt may be vastly more meaningful than
going to Thailand what's the status of
women in Egypt abominable will you be
safe in Egypt as a white woman in Egypt
no not at all is it still worthwhile to
visit Egypt probably so if you're
interested in spending time in Asia in
the future whether for your work or
studies or whatever then yes starting
off by spending a few weeks in Asia you
know I don't know how much time in
Thailand as opposed to time in Japan or
wherever spending that time and Asia is
probably worth it that's my advice of
course a lot of time people want much
more specific advice like which train
they should take I can also give advice
of that kind